---
layout: post
title: Sunrise 
date:   2019-10-06
background:  '/img/states/wa/sunrise/banner.jpg'
author: Tro
---

It was a crisp, sunny autumn morning when we pulled up to the dock in Tacoma for a boat dive with Bandito Charters. Right on time for the gates to open, we unloaded our gear - drysuits, two steel hundreds for me and Max’s doubles, regs, weights, undergarments - and trekked it all across the pier and down to their boat, the Sampan. The Sampan, itself isn’t huge, but it’s set up perfectly for diving in the Pacific Northwest; there were ten divers on the boat that day, but we didn’t feel cramped. We set up our dive gear at the back and stashed our suits in the dry area, then retreated to the cozy (and warm!) interior for the ride out.

We were headed down to Sunrise Beach Park in Gig Harbor, one of my very favorite dive sites in Washington. It was Max’s first boat dive, and my birthday to boot, so we were ready for some great diving, and it did not disappoint.

When we neared the site, we got a nice briefing of the site then all the divers started hustling into our suits, checking our gear one last time, and then buckling and strapping in. The boat moored, and one at a time we put on our fins and penguin shuffled over to the side to do a giant stride off into the inviting green waters. As soon as Max and I were both in the water, we made our way to the bow and began our descent.

Sunrise is a long rocky wall with caves, crevices, and boulders for critters to hide in. We dropped down around the middle of the wall and immediately spotted a good sized giant Pacific octopus (GPO for short) right below us. Off to an amazing start, we slowly cruised along the wall and found a number of huge, curious wolf eels - one of them even came out to check out my octo! Visibility was great, around 25’, and the water was a reasonable 52F. We took our time snooping around in every nook and cranny, finding all manner of fish, gunnels, sea stars, crabs, and sea urchins, until we reached the end of the rock wall and turned around.

Passing by the wolf eels again, we moved up to investigate a very large crevice. As I shined my light inside, a gigantic eye peered back out at me. With suckers the size of my fist, a massive GPO milled around inside its den; awake but uninterested in coming out. Max and I gawked at it for a while, and motioned for any of the divers passing by to come look as well.

Eventually we left the octopus to finish our tour of the wall, finding more wolf eels, including a couple bright orange juveniles, and a moon snail. It was just about time to return to the boat, so we headed up to do our safety stop next to some gently swaying bull kelp. The Sampan is a live dive boat, so once we finished our stop and surfaced, they swung around to pick us up. What a phenomenal dive! And there was warm soup and cupcakes afterwards to round out a perfect day.
