---
layout: post
title: Keystone
date:   2020-03-20
background:  '/img/states/wa/keystone/banner.jpg'
author: Tro
---

Mellow tides and mild winds made for a perfect day to dive the Keystone Jetty and ring in spring. We packed everything into my car and set out on a two hour road trip up to Fort Casey State Park where the site is located. The sun was out and the water was as calm as can be when we pulled up and set up all our gear.

Wasting no time getting into the water for the first of two planned dives, we kicked out away from the shore and dropped down right into a kelp field. Long blades of bull kelp waved in the gentle current over a carpet of sea lettuce, and it felt like we were swimming through a fairy tale forest. Soon, the kelp gave way to the jetty itself, with massive boulders covered in brilliant white plumose anemones and a seemingly endless array of critters. Crabs and snails and brilliant orange and white nudibranchs hid in the crevices formed by the jetty. Schools of black perch swarmed around in the water column, while bright kelp greenlings darted around the rocks.

Viz wasn’t the best, but not terrible at around 10’, and it was a chilly 43F, but it was beautiful. We snooped around in the jetty for a while, revelling in the sheer masses of anemones. They cling to the bounders in such numbers they look like puffy underwater clouds. An eddy near the end of the jetty turned us around and sent us back the way we came, so we then drifted on the current to see if we could reach another feature. Along the way we found moon snails and sea urchins for days. Eventually we turned the dive and headed in.

After a quick tank swap for me - Max was on doubles - we headed back in. This time we went to check out a giant Pacific octopus we’d missed the first time through on the jetty, then cruised across a line at 40’ towards some pilings. As we were swimming, I spotted a tiny tail peeking out from behind some kelp - a little juvenile wolf eel! Today was already awesome, but now it was extra great.

Nearing the pilings, we looked down and noticed all of a sudden that the sea floor was moving. Dozens of hermit crabs were clambering over rocks and each other. It was fascinating, and only got better when we made it to the pilings. Each of the pilings were covered in a unique mix of anemones, giant barnacles, sea urchins, and sea stars. The current had started to pick up on our way over, and as we navigated the pilings maze, we were getting pretty knocked around.

We gave up fighting the current and let it push us back all the way to our entry point. All in all, an amazing day and an amazing pair of dives.
